---
title: "How I develop GMSL camera driver on Nvidia Jetson platform - Preface"
description: ""
tags: [gmsl, nvidia-jetson, driver]
---

## Motivation

Before dive into my tutorials on developing this driver, I would like to talk more on the reason why I do this. 
Let's back to early 2021, our team decided to adopt Nvidia Jetson Xavier, a high performace AI computing unit, as our robot controller. At that moment, though, I have embedded software and system bring up experience, that is my first time touch GMSL camera driver. 
At the begining, I barely know what is color format, serdes, MIPI CSI, ISP, ..., every thing I need to discover by myself, because there are not much people who are familiar with this. I believe if you reach out this post, you might have the same bother like I had before. So I started to manage myself to start the journey. Luckly, there are several materials and forums, e.g. [Nvidia online forum](https://forums.developer.nvidia.com/c/agx-autonomous-machines/jetson-embedded-systems), and several source code we can refer. 
However, these materials are seperated into different places and you need to find them out and organized by yourself.

## Outlines

- What is GMSL protocol and what is GMSL camera ?
    - SerDes 
    - MIPI-CSI2
    - ISP v.s. No ISP
- The architecture in Jetson's camera subsystem.
    - VI system
    - MIPI CSI-2
    - V4L subsystem
- A Reference Design
    - here I will propose a reference design and explain the detail.
- Driver implementation
    - here I will explain how to implement the camera driver.
    - Guide to tweak device tree on Jetson platfform.
- Previewing camera streamings.
    - How to identify ISP or No ISP camera and choose the right way to open the camera.
    - How to use Gstreamer to preview the cameras.

## Conclusion

These posts's content are identical to materials on the internet, but add some of my experience in it. Hope who reach this series posts out can get inspired or solve your problem.